hello everyone welcome to the next
lecture in theory of computation and in
this lecture we will be discussing about
some of the operations on regular
languages all right so let's get started
okay so here are the operations that we
are going to discuss Union concatenation
and star so let's start with Union so
the formal definition of union is given
here a union B is equal to X such that X
belongs to a or X belongs to B so this
Union operation is exactly the same like
you perform your union operation on sets
so suppose you have two language sets
namely A and B then the union of A and B
would actually mean anything X such that
X could either belong to the set a or it
could belong to the set B so it
basically means everything from A and B
okay that is Union and coming to the
next one that is
concatenation a concatenation b
concatenation is denoted by the small
circle and is equal it is equal to XY
such that X belongs to a and Y belongs
to B this basically means that joining
two symbols together when you join two
or more strings or symbols together that
is what we mean by concatenation so
suppose you
have X which is an element of a and Y
which is an element of B and you join
them together like this X y that is
known as
concatenation and uh the next one is
star so star operation unlike Union and
conation in Star operation we have only
one set so performing the star operation
on set a means X1 X2 X3 up to XK such
that K greater than or equal to zero and
each X of I belongs to a so don't worry
about this long definition it only means
that you you
take as many symbols that you want from
your set a and you just join them
together in any way you like that is
what you mean by star so all these three
will become more clear when we take an
example that we are going to do below
that will make it even clearer all right
so let's take an example so here I'm
taking an example where I have two sets
A and B where a is equal to a set where
I have the
elements PQ and
R and then I have another set called B
which also has two elements T and
UV so we have these two sets and let's
perform Union concatenation and star on
these two sets so first of all let's
perform Union a union B what would this
be so a un b as we saw in the definition
X such that X belongs to a or X belongs
to B so basically it means everything
from A and B just put all these elements
together from A and B so from a we have
PQ and R and from B you have t and UV T
and UV so this is the union operation
everything from set a and set B put
together that is the union operation and
coming to the next one we have the
concatenation concatenation of A and B
so what is the concatenation of A and B
so as I told you concatenation means
joining two or more symbols or strings
together so here in a we have PQ and R
and in B we have t and UV so I should
join XY such that X belongs to a and Y
belongs to B that means one element from
a and another element from B should be
joined so how can I perform the joining
I could join PQ and T
PQ and T I have joined them together
that means I have concatenated it then
in the same way I can join PQ and
UV PQ UV and in the same way I can join
R and T R and T and then I can also join
R and UV R and UV so here we have
performed the concatenation of A and B
where the first element is from a second
is from B and we have joined them
together so that is a
concatenation and coming to
the last one which is star operation a
star so what is a star so as I told you
in Star operation there is only one set
involved so a star means I can take as
many symbols from that set and I can
join them together in any way I like so
I'm dealing with a a star so in a star
what are the elements that I can have so
I would first write Epsilon Epsilon as I
already told you in the first lecture it
means the empty string so empty string
also is a part of a star all right and
the second one would be PQ just by
itself I can write it and R just by
itself all right now let me join PQ andr
I can join PQ andr right I can also put
R first and then PQ R and then
PQ or I could put I could join PQ with
itself PQ PQ or I could join r with
itself like this r r or I could join PQ
three times PQ PQ
and PQ or I could even oh sorry there
should be no comma over here this is PQ
PQ
and
PQ means I'm joining it together and I
can also join R three times r r r and it
goes on this actually will be an
infinite set it could have infinite
number of elements so that is how we
perform Union concatenation and star all
right so I hope this was clear now there
are two important theorems that you need
to
remember which I will be discussing now
all right so here are the two theorems
the first theorem says that the class of
regular languages is closed under Union
so what does this mean this means that
if you have two regular languages let's
say suppose A and B are two regular
languages and if you perform the union
of A and B you perform the union of A
and B which are regular languages then
the union of A and B is also a regular
language that means the union of two
regular languages is also a regular
language that is what it means and then
the second theorem says that the class
of regular languages is closed under
concatenation in the same way if you
have two languages A and B which are
regular and if you perform the
concatenation of them then then the
concatenation of those two languages
will also be regular the concatenation
of two regular languages will also be a
regular language so that is the meaning
of these two theorems so I'll not be
doing the proof of these two theorems
and if you won the proof you can leave a
comment in the comment section below so
I will be discussing it in a later
lecture so I hope this we clear to you
about the operations that we perform on
regular languages which are Union SK
nation and star so thank you for
watching and see you in the next
[Music]
video